README.md, before:

> :warning: **make commits to this file in your seperate branch! this file is NOT to be modified in the `main` branch!**

---

add your name to this file below:
[*enter name here*]

enter a fun fact about yourself below:
[*enter fun fact here*]

---

## Topics to cover

- Repo Management + Diagramming~ 📝🧱
  - Cloning Repo
  - Diagram Based Training
    - Repo &rarr; Diagram
    - Diagram &rarr; VC + Branch Setup
- Branch Setup 🔀🎋
  - Create Branch
  - Navigate to Branch
  - Create Pull requests and Merge
  - Rebase
  - Cherry picking commits from one branch to another
- Version Control 🔄🔖
  - Push and Pull changes 
  - Stage and Commit changes 
  - Difference between Fetch and Pull 
  - Commit/Push management 
    -  Squash pushed changes 
    -  Deleting accidental commits
    -  Tagging commits 
  - Resolving Merge Conflicts

---

## Layout 🚧

\* emoji layouts loosely inspired by [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev/), my favorite commit ettiquette policy :blobheart:

---

approval status: ___
signed by: ___

Commit message:

[add] reformat ToC, cherrypicking + tagging md's + imgs, commit practice doc in

README.md, after:

> :warning: **make commits to this file in your seperate branch! this file is NOT to be modified in the `master` branch!**

---

add your name to this file below:
[*enter name here*]

enter a fun fact about yourself below:
[*enter fun fact here*]

---

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1) [repo-management](./repo-management) 📺
    - **[Install Git](./repo-management/git-install.md)** <<
    - **[Setup the Repository](./repo-management/repo-setup.md)** <<
    
2) [branch-setup](./branch-setup) 🎋
    - **[Create a Branch](./branch-setup/create-a-branch.md)** <<
    - [What are PRs? Merge vs. Rebase](./branch-setup/prs.md)
    
3) [version-control](./version-control) 🔄
    - [Squashing Commits](./version-control/squashing.md)
    - **[Cherry Picking and Tagging Commits](./version-control/cherry-and-tagging.md)** <<

\* bolded lessons in ToC are ones required to follow through for practical. we heavily suggest walking through ALL lessons, but in order to be eligible to take the practical, you MUST have the steps in the bolded lessons completed.

---

## Layout 🚧

\* emoji layouts loosely inspired by [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev/), my favorite commit ettiquette policy :blobheart:

---

approval status: ___

signed by: ___
